♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We are the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
Holiday cookies comin' through!
Gotcha!
Yum! I think my very favorite
part of the Festival of Friends
is Millie's amazing cookies!
I think my favorite part
is making homemade presents
for whoever we pick
as a festival friend.
It's exciting because you never
know whose name you're gonna pick.
And because we're all
friends in Acorn Springs,
it doesn't matter who you get.
[Teri] Hey, guys!
Everything's looking great.
Wow, that's really cool, Rumy.
What is it?
I picked the hermit crab
this year,
so I made her a parasol.
I'm glad you like it.
See? When the sun is out,
she can carry this around
and stay cool.
-I can't wait to give it to her.
-Hey, everyone!
I have the presents.
Oh, and here's mine.
So if that's everything,
the Festival of Friends
can officially begin.
Then let's get all our friends.
[both laughing]
Wow. Fergus,
look at all that stuff!
This must be
for the Festival of Friends.
-Teri invited us, remember?
-Oh, right.
Everyone picks the name
of a festival friend
and makes them
a homemade present.
These must be the presents!
Or maybe these are the things
they weren't giving each other,
you know, extra stuff
nobody wanted. [chuckles]
Then why would they
all have tags on them?
See, the tag on that truck
says, "For Bean."
Okay, so maybe
this is for Bean,
but until he shows up,
I can play with it, right?
Uh, I don't think you should.
Who's gonna know?
Nobody's here.
But they'll
probably be here soon.
And they won't like it
if they find you
playing with their presents.
Oh. I never thought of that.
Good thinking, Fergus.
We gotta get this stuff out of here.
Come on, give me a hand.
Wait.
Are you taking the presents?
Uh, that's not what I meant.
[chuckles]
We're not taking them.
We're just borrowing
so we can play with them
for a bit. Now, let's go.
[Bean clears throat]
Hear ye! Hear ye!
The old oak has been prepared,
and our presents are in place!
It's time to celebrate
the past year
and give thanks
to our great friends.
And with that, let's turn on
the holiday lights
and let the Festival
of Friends begin.
-Whoo-hoo!
-All right!
As this year's Parade Master,
I'll be leading
the Procession of Pals
that begins the Festival,
so follow me, friends!
-[all cheering]
-All right!
[all gasp, sigh]
It's beautiful,
and I like
how you hid the presents.
[laughs] We didn't hide them.
They're right there
in the wagon.
Oh, no!
All the presents are gone!
And the wagon is missing, too!
-[groaning]
-Wait, is this part of the festival?
How do we have
a Festival of Friends
without all the wonderful,
amazing things we made?
Don't worry. Whatever happened
to those presents,
Toby and I will find them
and bring them back.
It sounds like
we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Everyone put
a lot of time and love
into making those presents.
Sharing those gifts
is a part of what makes
the Festival of Friends so special.
We just gotta find 'em.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this!
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
-Did you find the presents?
-No.
We went to get
our detective stuff.
-It's gonna be okay.
-We'll use the clues,
starting with
these wagon tracks.
Whoever took the presents
used the wagon to do it.
We won't be long.
-See you!
-Good luck!
I hope they find
the presents soon.
[sighs] Yeah, I was
really looking forward
to seeing what everyone
made this year.
I know. Let's find a new way
to thank our friends.
We may not have
presents to give,
but we could give each other
the gift of dance.
[gasps] That's so...
poetic.
Since it's
a dance to friendship,
we should do it together.
Great idea!
Everyone, make a circle.
Yeah! And then we can all
celebrate each other
with dance!
I can start! Watch me work.
[all] Go, Jay! Go, Jay! Go, Jay!
-Yeah!
-Whoo-hoo!
All right!
[panting]
This is the perfect spot
to play with our presents.
Now let's see what we've got.
"Our presents"?
How can they be ours
if we're giving them back?
Yeah, yeah, they're just ours
until we're done with them.
We'll return them all,
except maybe this doll.
And nobody's gonna miss this.
-Oh, wait. I want this, too.
-[squeaks]
Ooh! And I've always
wanted one of these.
And, I don't even know what
this does, but I want it!
[stammers]
Ohh!
[head rattles]
[sighs]
[laughs]
[all] Go, Wayne! Go, Wayne!
Go, Wayne! Go, Wayne!
Hey, guys, this is
my dance to friendship!
[cheering]
-All right!
-Whoa!
Ooh. Toby, look.
It's a feather.
That's evidence for sure.
Wait a minute.
Are these wolf prints?
A feather and wolf prints?
Of course.
The feather
has to belong to Poe!
And his best friend is Fergus,
and he's a wolf pup,
so that's why
we've got wolf prints.
And look! Down that trail.
It's a ribbon
from one of the presents.
I'll bet Poe, Fergus, and our
missing presents went this way.
I'm sitting
in a huge pile of presents.
I've never had
so much fun stuff ever,
so why am I
not having any fun?
Maybe it's because those
presents weren't meant for you.
And you know
you should give them back.
But I'm not
done playing with them!
Poe, each one of these presents
was made especially
for someone.
And presents aren't presents
when you take them.
It's the sharing with friends
that makes them special.
Here you go.
What's this?
[Teri] When we asked you
to come to the festival,
-we made you something special.
-Oh.
It's pictures
from the first time we met.
You made this
just for me? Why?
Because you're our friend,
and it feels really good to give
something special to a friend.
Haven't you ever given
something to a friend?
I'm not giving you my picture.
You don't have to.
Here. This is for Fergus.
Go ahead.
You can give it to him if you want.
Eh, I don't know.
I could really use
this exact thingie
I didn't know
I previously needed,
but I think you'd like it
more than me, Fergus.
Here you go.
Thanks, Poe. I love it!
Ohh! [laughs]
Wow, you do?
I'm glad you like it.
Wow.
It feels nice to share
something with a friend.
Who knew?
You know, tiny ants, bats,
and even elephants
all give to each other.
And you know who else shares things
with animals that they care about?
Ravens.
It's how they make friends.
Well, no one will wanna be friends
with a raven
who took all their presents.
Unless he gives them back.
-[laughter]
-[whooping]
All right!
You guys know how to throw
a first-rate shindig.
I don't know how this
could have been any more fun.
[Teri]
What if there were presents?
[Millie]
You found the presents?
[Toby] We did more than that.
We found someone special
to hand them out.
Hi, everyone! I'm Papa Acorn!
And I'm here to give you
all the special things
you made for each other.
And I've brought
my trusty sidekick,
the Present Wolf, to help.
[all cheering]
Uh...
I'm sorry I took your presents.
I didn't know how much
they meant to you.
But now I understand
how it feels
to give a friend
something special.
Let's see what we have here.
Hermit crab, this is for you,
from your friend, Rumy!
[squeaking]
Aw, you're welcome.
Everyone gather round,
and let's see what else
is in Papa Acorn's wagon!
Papa Acorn should give out
the presents every year.
-[cheering]
-All right!
Oh, I'd love that.
Everyone smile,
and say, "Friends"!
-Friends!
[camera clicks]
I think one of the best parts
of having friends
is letting them know
how you feel about them.
And I'm glad Poe learned how
great it feels to give a friend
something special.
I can't wait to see
what Papa Acorn
brings everyone next year.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] "The Case
of the Homemade Holiday"
is officially closed.
Everybody ready
for New Year's Eve?
Yes! I made decorations!
And Rumy and I
invented something new!
-The acorn popper!
-Hooray!
[Jay] Hey, everybody,
Millie's got our dream box.
Look. It's open
and ready for dreams.
That's right.
It's not New Year's
unless we all write our biggest
dreams for the coming year
so we can make them come true.
This year, I'm finally going to
perfect my triple loop-de-loop!
I want to learn a new language.
I want to climb the tallest tree
in Acorn Springs.
What about you, Rumy?
What's your dream?
Oh, I don't want to say.
[laughing]
It's kinda silly.
No one's dreams are silly.
Whatever your dream is,
we'll all help you
to make it come true.
Okay. Well,
I kinda wish I could be
a real Treehouse Detective
just like you guys
with a badge and everything.
-I wanna be a detective!
-I want that, too!
I think we'd all like
to be Treehouse Detectives,
but what do we do?
Well, you're going to need
a case to solve,
a good one with clues to use
and facts to follow.
So you'll find us one?
Of course.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
If our friends are going to earn
their detective badges,
they need a really
important case to crack,
but we don't have
anything to solve right now.
Wait a minute.
What if we're the case?
What if they have to find us?
Hmm. Toby and Teri are missing.
Sounds like there's
a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
[clunks]
Oh! I think a UFO
just landed on the table!
What planet are you from?!
It's not a UFO.
It's a note from Toby and Teri.
"Treehouse Detectives
use the clues.
I know for you
that is no news.
Our New Year's party
cannot start
until you guys
have done your part."
Until we've done our part?
But what's our part?
Oh! Our part is
cracking the case, our case!
But what is our case?
Oh, I'm so confused.
Oh, too bad Toby and Teri
aren't here.
They'd be able to figure out
this clue for sure.
That's it! Rumy's right!
Toby and Teri are missing.
They're the case.
They are?
Yes! And listen. There's more.
"You'll notice
that we're not around.
You'll find your first clue
on the ground."
Let's see.
What's on the ground?
Hmm. Dirt and grass and rocks,
and Toby and Teri's footprints,
and some ants.
Oh! Are ants the clue?
I don't think so,
but let's take a look
at those footprints.
These are Toby and Teri's,
all right.
Whoa!
Whoa. What happened?
I bumped into a bag.
And look!
It's full of detective stuff.
Toby and Teri must have
left it here to help us.
-Now we can follow the facts.
-Like real detectives.
Oh! And that means
they were here!
I can see their footprints
lead into the forest.
We've used our first clue.
Come on!
-Whoo-hoo!
-Let's go!
[Millie] The footprints
stop here at the--
Whoa!
[all] Rocco!
Hey, gang. What you doing?
We're using the clues
to find Toby and Teri.
It's our very own case.
And their footprints led to you,
which means--
What does it mean?
Well, it could mean that
I've got your next clue.
Wow! Those mittens
are really nice.
Thanks! I couldn't decide
on a color, so I didn't.
Here's your clue.
Good luck, you guys.
-Thank you!
-Thanks, Rocco!
-What's it say?
-Ahem.
"Good detectives always see
when things seem out of place.
Find those things,
because they're clues
to help you crack this case."
So our next clue
is something out of place?
But what's out of place?
Well, I see winter stuff,
winter bushes and winter trees
and winter sunflowers.
Wait. Did you say, "Sunflowers"?
Sunflowers don't fit in,
not in the winter,
just like the riddle.
They must be the clue.
Jay's right! Come on!
We've got some sunflowers
to investigate.
Wow. These are really pretty
and really yellow.
[gasps] They're a clue!
Oh, you guys used another clue.
-[moose] Hello!
-Oh!
Hello.
Have you got a clue for us?
[muffled]
Yup, i' 'ere i' my mo'.
Oh, that's a hard one.
Do you think it's some kind of code?
No, I think that's the sound of a
moose with something in his mouth.
[Bean] Something like the clue.
Thanks! Great job, guys!
Just keep using those clues,
and I'll see you at the party.
Bye for now!
-Thanks, moose!
-See you later!
"Your next clue waits
in a cool, dark place
somewhere out of sight,
waiting with a friend of ours
who really likes the night."
Oh! Ooh!
Oh, I think I know this one.
Can I try?
Absolutely.
So what do you think it means?
[chuckles] Let's see.
Um, I-I think...
-Bean can do this one.
-I don't know.
[whispering]
I think maybe it's the bat.
She likes the night,
and her cave is cool and dark.
It's totally the bat!
Great job, Rumy! You did it!
Let's get to the cave
and crack this case.
-Okay!
-Yeah!
Yes! Nailed it!
[bat chitters]
-Hi, guys!
-Hey!
-Hi there!
-Hi.
Here's your final clue.
Thanks.
Okay. "You've got
all the clues you need,
but now you must be brave.
The final thing
you need to know
is deeper in this cave."
[gasps]
Look! It's a glowing cave rock.
No, wait. It's Teri's WhyTab.
It is! Great job, Rumy.
Quick, tap the screen.
-[beep]
-[Toby] Hi, guys!
Great job making it this far.
Cool!
It's a secret message for us!
You're almost there.
Remember how we said
that clues are things
that don't fit in? Well...
There was something special
about every animal you met.
If you can remember
what it was...
[Teri] You can crack this case.
And since I always find
a useful fact on the WhyTab,
here's one for you.
Pigs have amazing memories,
so if you need to remember
something, just ask a pig.
Pigs have great memories?
[laughs]
But we don't know
any pigs except me.
So that means you're
gonna crack this case!
[gasps] Me?
Uh, oh, no. I don't think I can.
Of course you can.
Rumy, just try, and you'll see.
Yeah, don't be afraid to speak up.
It's not so scary when
your friends are beside you.
And your friends know you can do it.
So go on.
Think hard. What was different
about all the animals we met?
[grunting]
Rocco had mittens,
and they were different colors,
red and orange.
And next to the pretend
yellow sunflowers
was the moose
wearing a really green hat!
Oh, and the bat was wearing
a beautiful blue, indigo,
and violet scarf.
[gasps] Red, orange, yellow,
green, blue, indigo, violet,
they're the colors
of the rainbow!
A rainbow.
Toby and Teri are at...
[all] Rainbow Hill!
Congratulations.
You cracked the case.
[all cheering]
You guys are
amazing detectives!
So are you, Rumy.
I'd say you guys have
definitely earned your badges.
You are now officially
Treehouse Detectives.
What about you guys?
You haven't told us
your dream for the coming year.
We just want to solve
more cases.
With our very best friends.
-Yeah!
-I hear that!
Okay, Treehouse Detectives,
say, "Happy New Year"!
[acorn popper blares]
-Happy New Year!
[camera clicks]
This was my favorite case ever,
and we didn't even solve it.
I know! It was solved
by Acorn Springs'
newest detectives.
I have a feeling this year
is going to be the best one yet.
I think so, too.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] "The Case
of the Deputy Detectives"
is officially closed.